components.md, before:

# NovyUI Components

Welcome to the NovyUI Components reference. This document provides an overview of all UI components available in NovyUI. Each component has its own dedicated file in the `/components` directory.

- [🔽 Accordion](components/Accordion.md)
- [📌 Affix](components/Affix.md)
- [⚠️ Alert](components/Alert.md)
- [🔗 Anchor Navigation](components/AnchorNavigation.md)
- [👤 Avatar](components/Avatar.md)
- [🏷️ Badge](components/Badge.md)
- [💬 Blockquote](components/Blockquote.md)
- [🍞 Breadcrumbs](components/Breadcrumbs.md)
- [🆗 Button](components/Button.md)
- [📅 Calendar](components/Calendar.md)
- [🗂️ Card](components/Card.md)
- [🌲 Cascader](components/Cascader.md)
- [☑️ Checkbox](components/Checkbox.md)
- [🏷️ Chips](components/Chips.md)
- [➖ Collapse](components/Collapse.md)
- [🎨 Color Input](components/ColorInput.md)
- [🧰 Combobox](components/Combobox.md)
- [⌨️ Command](components/Command.md)
- [📋 Context Menu](components/ContextMenu.md)
- [⏳ Countdown](components/Countdown.md)
- [📊 Data Table](components/DataTable.md)
- [📆 Date Picker](components/DatePicker.md)
- [🗓️ Date Range Picker](components/DateRangePicker.md)
- [🗨️ Dialog](components/Dialog.md)
- [🟰 Divider](components/Divider.md)
- [🗄️ Drawer](components/Drawer.md)
- [🗃️ Dropzone](components/Dropzone.md)
- [📤 File Input](components/FileInput.md)
- [❗ Form Error Message](components/FormErrorMessage.md)
- [🪧 Hover Card](components/HoverCard.md)
- [🖼️ Image](components/Image.md)
- [📝 Input](components/Input.md)
- [👥 Input Group](components/InputGroup.md)
- [⌨️ Keyboard Key](components/KeyboardKey.md)
- [📋 List](components/List.md)
- [⏳ Loading](components/Loading.md)
- [🗺️ Map](components/Map.md)
- [🍔 Menubar](components/Menubar.md)
- [🔔 Notification](components/Notification.md)
- [🔢 Number Input](components/NumberInput.md)
- [📄 Pagination](components/Pagination.md)
- [🔒 Password Input](components/PasswordInput.md)
- [🔑 Pin Input](components/PinInput.md)
- [❓ Popconfirm](components/Popconfirm.md)
- [💬 Popover](components/Popover.md)
- [📈 Progress](components/Progress.md)
- [🔳 QR Code](components/QRCode.md)
- [🔘 Radio](components/Radio.md)
- [⭐ Rating](components/Rating.md)
- [↔️ Resizable Panel](components/ResizablePanel.md)
- [📝 Rich Text Editor](components/RichTextEditor.md)
- [🖱️ Scroll Area](components/ScrollArea.md)
- [🕵️ Scrollspy](components/Scrollspy.md)
- [🔍 Searchbox](components/Searchbox.md)
- [🗳️ Select](components/Select.md)
- [🎚️ Slider](components/Slider.md)
- [📊 Statistic](components/Statistic.md)
- [🪜 Stepper](components/Stepper.md)
- [🔀 Switch](components/Switch.md)
- [🗂️ Tabs](components/Tabs.md)
- [🏷️ Tag Input](components/TagInput.md)
- [📝 Textarea](components/Textarea.md)
- [🌗 Theme Toggle](components/ThemeToggle.md)
- [⏰ Time Input](components/TimeInput.md)
- [🕒 Timeline](components/Timeline.md)
- [🔁 Toggle](components/Toggle.md)
- [💡 Tooltip](components/Tooltip.md)
- [🔄 Transfer List](components/TransferList.md)
- [🌳 Tree View](components/TreeView.md)
- [🔤 Typography](components/Typography.md)

## Instructions

- Every component in `/components` must be listed here, sorted alphabetically by display name (ignoring leading emojis/symbols).
- Every link must point to an existing file.

- Use the following template for each component:
  ```md
  ## [Component Title]
  A brief description of the component's purpose.
  - **Id:** [ComponentId]
  - **Appearance:** Description of the component's layout and visual elements.
  - **Behavior:** Description of the component's interactive features or logic.
  - **Used in Blocks:**
    - [BlockId1](../blocks/BlockId1.md)
    - [BlockId2](../blocks/BlockId2.md)
    - ...
  ### Accessibility
  - Describe accessibility features, keyboard support, and ARIA usage if relevant.
  ### Variants
  #### [Component Title] - **[Variant Name]**
  - **Id:** [VariantId]
  - **Appearance:** Description of the variant's layout or features.
  - **Behavior:** Description of the variant's behavior.
  ```

- Keep the list of BlockIds and their paths in the **Used in Blocks:** section up to date.
- The **Used in Blocks:** section must not be empty; every component must be referenced by at least one real block.
- Always document accessibility and keyboard support for all components (Accessibility section is required).
- Every component file must include a `### Accessibility` section describing accessibility and keyboard support.

Commit message:

Enforces documentation structure rules
Updates documentation structure rules in components, blocks, and pages markdown files to enforce consistency and completeness.

The changes introduce stricter requirements for documentation, including token usage tables, state/variant documentation, accessibility sections, consistent token use, and reference synchronization. These rules aim to improve the quality and maintainability of the documentation.

components.md, after:

# NovyUI Components

Welcome to the NovyUI Components reference. This document provides an overview of all UI components available in NovyUI. Each component has its own dedicated file in the `/components` directory.

- [🔽 Accordion](components/Accordion.md)
- [📌 Affix](components/Affix.md)
- [⚠️ Alert](components/Alert.md)
- [🔗 Anchor Navigation](components/AnchorNavigation.md)
- [👤 Avatar](components/Avatar.md)
- [🏷️ Badge](components/Badge.md)
- [💬 Blockquote](components/Blockquote.md)
- [🍞 Breadcrumbs](components/Breadcrumbs.md)
- [🆗 Button](components/Button.md)
- [📅 Calendar](components/Calendar.md)
- [🗂️ Card](components/Card.md)
- [🌲 Cascader](components/Cascader.md)
- [☑️ Checkbox](components/Checkbox.md)
- [🏷️ Chips](components/Chips.md)
- [➖ Collapse](components/Collapse.md)
- [🎨 Color Input](components/ColorInput.md)
- [🧰 Combobox](components/Combobox.md)
- [⌨️ Command](components/Command.md)
- [📋 Context Menu](components/ContextMenu.md)
- [⏳ Countdown](components/Countdown.md)
- [📊 Data Table](components/DataTable.md)
- [📆 Date Picker](components/DatePicker.md)
- [🗓️ Date Range Picker](components/DateRangePicker.md)
- [🗨️ Dialog](components/Dialog.md)
- [🟰 Divider](components/Divider.md)
- [🗄️ Drawer](components/Drawer.md)
- [🗃️ Dropzone](components/Dropzone.md)
- [📤 File Input](components/FileInput.md)
- [❗ Form Error Message](components/FormErrorMessage.md)
- [🪧 Hover Card](components/HoverCard.md)
- [🖼️ Image](components/Image.md)
- [📝 Input](components/Input.md)
- [👥 Input Group](components/InputGroup.md)
- [⌨️ Keyboard Key](components/KeyboardKey.md)
- [📋 List](components/List.md)
- [⏳ Loading](components/Loading.md)
- [🗺️ Map](components/Map.md)
- [🍔 Menubar](components/Menubar.md)
- [🔔 Notification](components/Notification.md)
- [🔢 Number Input](components/NumberInput.md)
- [📄 Pagination](components/Pagination.md)
- [🔒 Password Input](components/PasswordInput.md)
- [🔑 Pin Input](components/PinInput.md)
- [❓ Popconfirm](components/Popconfirm.md)
- [💬 Popover](components/Popover.md)
- [📈 Progress](components/Progress.md)
- [🔳 QR Code](components/QRCode.md)
- [🔘 Radio](components/Radio.md)
- [⭐ Rating](components/Rating.md)
- [↔️ Resizable Panel](components/ResizablePanel.md)
- [📝 Rich Text Editor](components/RichTextEditor.md)
- [🖱️ Scroll Area](components/ScrollArea.md)
- [🕵️ Scrollspy](components/Scrollspy.md)
- [🔍 Searchbox](components/Searchbox.md)
- [🗳️ Select](components/Select.md)
- [🎚️ Slider](components/Slider.md)
- [📊 Statistic](components/Statistic.md)
- [🪜 Stepper](components/Stepper.md)
- [🔀 Switch](components/Switch.md)
- [🗂️ Tabs](components/Tabs.md)
- [🏷️ Tag Input](components/TagInput.md)
- [📝 Textarea](components/Textarea.md)
- [🌗 Theme Toggle](components/ThemeToggle.md)
- [⏰ Time Input](components/TimeInput.md)
- [🕒 Timeline](components/Timeline.md)
- [🔁 Toggle](components/Toggle.md)
- [💡 Tooltip](components/Tooltip.md)
- [🔄 Transfer List](components/TransferList.md)
- [🌳 Tree View](components/TreeView.md)
- [🔤 Typography](components/Typography.md)

## Instructions and Documentation Structure Rules

- Every component in `/components` must be listed here, sorted alphabetically by display name (ignoring leading emojis/symbols).
- Every link must point to an existing file.

- Use the following template for each component:
  ```md
  ## [Component Title]
  A brief description of the component's purpose.
  - **Id:** [ComponentId]
  - **Appearance:** Description of the component's layout and visual elements.
  - **Behavior:** Description of the component's interactive features or logic.
  - **Used in Blocks:**
    - [BlockId1](../blocks/BlockId1.md)
    - [BlockId2](../blocks/BlockId2.md)
    - ...
  ### Accessibility
  - Describe accessibility features, keyboard support, and ARIA usage if relevant.
  ### Variants
  #### [Component Title] - **[Variant Name]**
  - **Id:** [VariantId]
  - **Appearance:** Description of the variant's layout or features.
  - **Behavior:** Description of the variant's behavior.
  ```

- Keep the list of BlockIds and their paths in the **Used in Blocks:** section up to date.
- The **Used in Blocks:** section must not be empty; every component must be referenced by at least one real block.
- Always document accessibility and keyboard support for all components (Accessibility section is required).
- Every component file must include a `### Accessibility` section describing accessibility and keyboard support.

- **Token Usage Table:** Include a table listing all relevant UI parts, the token used, and a short description. Example:

  | Part        | Token Example      | Description                |
  |-------------|-------------------|----------------------------|
  | Background  | color.primary.7   | Main button background     |
  | Text        | color.neutral.11  | Button label               |
  | Border      | color.primary.5   | Border color               |
  | Radius      | radii.2           | Border radius              |
  | Shadow      | shadow.1          | Button shadow              |

- **State/Variant Documentation:** Explicitly document all UI states (default, hover, active, disabled, focus, etc.) and variants. For each state/variant, specify which tokens change and how.

- **Accessibility Section:** Cover keyboard navigation, ARIA roles/attributes, color contrast, focus indicators, and any additional considerations.

- **Consistent Token Use:** All visual properties must use tokens from `/tokens`. No hardcoded values.

- **Reference Sync and ToC Listing:** All references must use correct relative paths and be kept in sync. Every item must be listed in `components.md`.

- **Style Consistency:** Integrate new requirements using the same style and conventions as the rest of the file.
